OK OK I said that they're both equal.
But you didn't really tell us about the pros and cons of each.
Let's go over the key differences between these two to finalize everything that we've talked about functional
programming is all about performing many different operation for which the data is fixed.
So that's many operations
object oriented programming is about a few operations
on common data in a functional program.
We have the idea of stateless.
That is we don't modify state state is immutable versus an object oriented programming that is very
state full.
We are modifying state a feature of objects.
Is that an object.
Procedures can access and often modified the data fields of the object.
Right we have the idea of this and self in objects and we can modify them in classes in functional programming
our functions are pure they are no side effects it means that the functions that we write don't make
an impact on the code that is running outside of that function on object oriented programming.
There are definitely side effects methods manipulate our internal state.
Now the interesting thing.
And why functional programming is becoming popular is because of this idea of purity because of this
with the functions that have no side effects it means that we can start running code in parallel on
multiple processors and it won't have effect on our program vs. an object oriented programming where
we can do that because our functions have side effects with functional programming.
It's more declarative it's about what we want to be doing vs. an object oriented program which is more
about how we want it to be done which is more imperative.
So when should you use one over the other.
Well functional programming is quite good at processing large data for applications if you're analyzing
data user data maybe using it for a machine learning model.
Functional programming works really well for high performance and processors for example because you
can run it on multiple processors if you have a few things that require a lot of operations a lot of
little functions applied to it well then functional programming is usually a good idea.
If on the other hand you have many things like characters in a game with not too many operations with
few operations will then object oriented programming might be a better solution but as I said before
you can use the ideas from both of these to write your code.
For example in this react app our robo friends app from my other course.
Well here we see that react to users classes to extend component.
We have a constructor we calling our super so that the component class which is a class provided by
the react library can be constructed so that we have the ability of the component class and then we
also have methods that we create onto this class.
But at the same time there's also this idea of functional programming.
If we go to our components that is the components on our Web site these little pieces of Jess X which
convert to AML well they're just pure functions.
The card component just receives an input of properties and produces an output based on that input no
matter how many times I run this with the same input it's going to deliver the same output.
It's just pure functions without state so remember in all programs there are two primary components
the data and the behaviors object oriented programming says hey bring together the data and the behavior
in a single location called object or class.
This is going to allow us to understand our program easier and be more organized functional programming
says that data and behavior are distinctly different things and should be kept separate for clarity
I hope these principles will be useful to you in your future and I hope you learned a lot.
I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.